# co-rivers-leaf-unfolding
# Readme

This readme gives an overview over the scripts and steps for generating the outputs and analyses associated with the manuscript.

## Platforms

Operating systems and software used for development and implementation

-   Windows 11 Education (V 23H2)
-   R version 4.3.2 (2023-10-31 ucrt)

## Directory overview

-   **00_helpers/**: Helper functions for calling standard libraries, plot themes and formatting.
-   **01_analysis_code/**: Code for running the analysis. Code for data processing was not included because tree coordinates cannot be disclosed to protect the privacy of citizen scientists.
-   **01_analysis_code/\_book**: Rendered report of the analysis with all results.
-   **own_data/**: Input data to run the analysis.
-   **own_data/output_data**: Output data generated by the analysis.

## Scripts

-   **4_euler_dredge_all.R**: Script for parallelized generation of model variations and evaluation of model weights
-   **4_intro_global_models.qmd**: Script to generate reference models and dependent scripts (e.g. species specific reports)
-   **5_manual_SPECIES_SHORT_leaf_unfolding.R**: Script to generate manually specified improved reference models. Do not run this script, the main script will run it automatically.
-   **5_results_SPECIES_SHORT_leaf_unfolding.qmd**: Processing of model outputs.
-   **6_species_comparison_leaf_unfolding.qmd**: Results.

## How to run the code

1.  Install quarto for R Studio

2.  Open the project file with R Studio and enter "quarto render" and the folder path into the terminal.

    R-packages will be installed automatically if they are not yet installed on your machine. Rendering the report will generate all required dependent scripts, data and results. The report will be generated in the folder \_book/. All subfolders within \_book contain the figures relevant to the publication. It will take at least 3 h per species to generate the model variations, if you want to reproduce them yourself instead of using the provided files. The typical runtime for rendering the report is approximately 5-10 minutes.
